more people should be hard on themselves
we go around bubble wrapping ourselves
right we leave the training bills on for
too long like be hard on yourself take
the [__] bubble wrap off take the
take the training wheels off no one did
that for me man we came to this country
and it was just like hey go figure it
out but it was don't take risks to go
get a good job
[__] that be a fighter jet be a fighter
jet go to battle every day take risks
that's what a fighter jet does a crop
duster has a routine life and it's
[__] boring everybody welcome to
impact fury our goal with this show and
company is to introduce you to the
people and ideas that are gonna help you
actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is an ink 500 CEO
twice over whose company made
entrepreneur magazine's list of the top
15 franchises but that is all a very
very long way from where he started his
family came to the US with $200 after
fleeing soviet-controlled Armenia in
1980 over night he went from having
caviar for breakfast having to dumpster
dive to avoid going hungry his family
risked everything to trade comfort for
freedom something he's grateful for
today but back then it meant
excruciating poverty it meant cramming
an entire family of five into someone's
spare bedroom it meant moving 14 times
in his first two years in this country
alone it meant washing his hair with
gasoline to kill lice and growing up
heavyset because he couldn't afford
quality food it also meant having to
build up from the absolute bottom in the
face of people who did not want him here
prejudice and bullying were near daily
occurrences that chipped away at him
filling him with anger and at least
initially sent him down a very bad path
he was fighting a lot being a jerk and
at one point even being the getaway
driver in a home invasion that ended in
a police helicopter chase can't believe
that's true
finally after getting jumped by more
than a dozen gang members and beaten
savagely he decided he was going to turn
his life around he got in shape started
personal training and decided he was
going to help people for a living
luckily one of his clients a successful
entrepreneur taught him the basics of
sales and that was all he needed in the
years that followed he built a massive
empire by delivering a ton of value and
charging a fair price for it too
day a true rags to riches story he is
the CEO of Fit Body Boot Camp ranked
number 350 an entrepreneur magazine's
list of the 500 fastest growing
franchises earning hundreds of millions
of dollars in revenue per year and is
considered the fitness industry's most
trusted advisor he hosts the biggest
fitness business seminar in the world
and has been featured in media outlets
such as ink magazine The Huffington Post
dr. oz and countless others so please
help me in welcoming the author of the
book man up
serial entrepreneur speaker and business
consultant
Pedro's cool Ian so your story is one of
the most insane I think I've ever heard
in my life
so how do you leverage the bullies the
darkness the prejudice all of that to do
something powerful and positive you you
do have to embrace the darkness you have
to embrace the rage one thing that
recently clicked for me about a year ago
I read Tim grover's book relentless and
think within the first two or three
chapters Tim talks about how he was
working with Dwyane Wade and trying to
get him to come back and be better than
ever and he said if he could just get on
that basketball court and bring 48
minutes of controlled rage to his
opponents you're good you're a winner
and I realized for the last 20 years man
I've been bringing controlled rage to my
industry and I know that's probably not
the politically best correct thing to
say I should say that I have a bigger
purpose and impact and and I do we've
got it adopted kids and charities and
causes but it's the [__] darkness and
the rage that drives me I love that and
that's something that you know in your
answer you obviously anticipate that
people want you to say something more
lofty or beautiful or whatever it is
that they're looking for but I found
that to be 100%
that at the end of the day there's
beauty and light in the world and I
think that they both serve a purpose my
my question and and I resonate with Tim
Grover as much as you do how do you
control the rage how like most people
are broken by the experiences that you
went through so how do you actively turn
that into something useful well it's not
so much controlling the rage it's
knowing that when I had all that anger
and rage and I channeled it towards you
know carjacking and home invasions with
my friends being the getaway driver and
getting caught by the police like karma
was not good to me right when you decide
to carjack someone and you later find
out that night that they're in a gang
and now they're back for retaliation and
they're beating the crap out of you in
front of your girlfriend who's like
panicking right you realize hey this is
karmic justice and so I had to take that
rage and use it for good and I figured
at that point that if I use it for good
good things would happen because I use
it for bad and bad things were happening
to me like I'm not the sharpest knife in
the drawer but I do know how to connect
dot and the dots were when it did bad
bad happen to me and by god I better
start doing good or I'm gonna die and so
you know thankfully the only constant I
had in my life was you know after senior
year of high school I finally decided to
figure out how to lose weight just I can
ask some girl out to the prom I never
did ask her to the prom but I lost
weight senior year of high school and
that kind of you know got me involved in
fitness and working out so I was always
in the gym which was bad because now I'm
a strong steroid using angry young man
just on a mission to destroy right my
goal wasn't to go and destroy things
just you have it I want it and it was
mine bad way to look at things and today
it's the opposite and I want to serve
you and I wake up every morning knowing
that I can wear one of two shirts what
can you do for me or how can I serve you
and I choose the one deliberately every
single morning and how can I serve you
and ever since I've done that it's been
the most selfish thing so I take that
darkness that rage the anger and I just
use it for
why do you think it's so youthful I
think it's useful for me and I think
more people ought to embrace that
darkness that rage because gives you a
sense of being invincible the truth of
matter is whether you're growing up
you're a foreigner like I am in this
country and you're growing up against
bigotry and hate and being broke and
moving around from the school to school
and being bullied and picked on and or
you're an entrepreneur and you're trying
to build your business turn your idea
into a dream and and help people you're
gonna you're gonna come across
adversities challenges setbacks and
you've got to have a reason why and most
people who succeed ultimately have a
strong reason why but if that reason why
is fueled I look at rage and darkness as
the supercharger I have a reason why and
the supercharger on top that engine is
my rage and darkness and so I think more
people ought to put themselves in
positions where they deal with adversity
and challenges so that they can develop
some sense of anger and darkness and
rage like I'll be very frank with you
dude between the ages of four e'n four
and six I was molested by two older boys
consistently in Armenia while my parents
don't knows when we escaped Armenia they
thought they're just bringing us to
freedom they saved me from that like I
grew up the chip on my shoulder call men
were the [__] enemy to me right
because of what happened to me and I was
fists up everywhere so you know only in
hindsight Steve Jobs says when you look
back all the dots connect but I realized
all that anger and rage was coming from
just I have to go protect myself right
but in that ability to disassociate when
you know when you're being molested over
and over again you have to disassociate
and mentally disappear I realize that I
developed some superpower
and you don't have to go and get
molested you don't have to go and get
raped and abused but you can go take on
a challenge that you've never done
before in 2010 you know I kind of called
myself I'm a meathead I just lift
weights and put him down right I had
kind of painted myself into that corner
why not go run a marathon so I trained
for six weeks and when ran a marathon
it was the most painful thing I ever did
but I realized that was more the
suffering and the pain and the more pain
I had the more put me into the zone of
wanting to dominate so it is a
superpower
so I almost now go back and put myself
into these challenges Rob claiming I was
afraid of heights took on a six-week
challenge started climbing Rob's wanted
to fight a professional MMA fighter so I
hired him trained for six weeks one of
the Ring and got my ass kicked and
choked out but each time I did that it
gave me the sense of I can get over any
obstacle and if I can get over getting
choked out and punched and the pain of
26.2 miles in a marathon or overcoming
my fear of heights surely I can build a
business surely I can take some
criticism online right but not enough
people are willing to build that mental
emotional toughness and the moment they
do though persevere I love that and I
love your analogy of you having the why
and then the the rage that sits on top
of it becomes the supercharger talk to
me what is the why and one thing I find
so interesting in your story is when you
take any one detail it's it's like this
never-ending parade of hardship but the
through your lens of like Karma and it
turning into basically whatever you're
indulging in you've found something so
beautiful in your empire like having
seen so much of what you talk about and
all that I know it all comes back to
that sort of the beautiful things you're
trying to bring into the world but what
what are those things the things I'm
trying to bring into the world are the
things that I needed most I'm truthful
I'm still healing myself I'm healing
myself you know we've got fifty seven
kids adopted through compassion
International and and we every year we
donated quarter-million dollars or more
on Christmas right around Christmas to
the Marine Corps Toys for Tots and I've
been supporting the Shriners Children's
Hospital since 2009 if you look at all
three of those they're all child kid
centric stuff what am I trying to do I'm
trying to fix that little boy inside me
right I'm trying to help that little boy
and then of course I was a fat growing
up eating you know Velveeta cheese
Bologna found in the dumpster
I mean we were dumpster diving when we
came to America I was eating literally
eating of dumpsters and so when you grew
up with no nutrition background and I
know you can relate to this your
background is similar you know very
unhealthy background I realized that
I've got bad genetics because I've never
took the time to eat right never took
the time to work out as a kid so as I
grew up senior year of high school is
when I started to actually work out I
realized how much tougher it was from me
than kids who were athletes and whose
parents kind of controlled what they ate
at cetera and gave him some nutritional
guidelines so I've always been the late
study but um for me I realized most
people go to the gym and then statistics
back this up 89% of gym members never
get results 89% of gym members never get
results and the 11% who do get results
are either former athletes or personal
trainers or have taken the time to study
up and so I wanted to create a model
that wasn't expensive like I was really
that broke foam kid trying to figure it
out
and so it was easy enough for me to go
alright we're gonna create this bootcamp
model where it's one trainer many
clients and we make it more affordable
and convenient for people I'm gonna make
I'm gonna break all the myths about
fitness there are no there is no
overnight lose 30 pounds in 30 days I'm
just so sick and tired of hearing that
and I fell for that as a kid so
everything that I've fallen for every
pain that I've had I'm just still trying
to solve right now and I and I imagine
I'll go to my deathbed trying to do that
just trying to constantly heal myself it
is the most selfish thing I'm doing my
my mentor Jim Franco who was a personal
training client you know he was a little
rough around the edges he was in the 60s
and he came from the automotive world
and he owned the software that you know
actually you go into the auto zones and
pet boys his company updates the
software so what kind of filter and oil
and etc for your car and so he was very
well-to-do and Monday mornings I was
very tired I was a personal trainer a
fry cook and a bouncer at a gay bar
because the gay bar paid more by the way
people always ask why at a gay bar they
paid three dollars more than the
straight bar and those three dollars per
hour is a lot for me at that time and so
Monday morning when I was training a
most tired and exhausted he goes kid
what's the matter with you I'm like old
Jim I've got two jobs on the weekends
you know and I'm exhausted by the time I
get here
and he handed me the Tom Hopkins
cassette tape one day he just shows up
to his personal training session he was
listen to this tonight and so I listened
to Tom Hopkins Tom Hopkins leads to
Brian Tracy Brian Tracy Zig Ziglar and
Tony Robbins and Dan Kennedy and before
you know what it's self development and
and I realized the value of giving and
the more I give the more I get back so
Jim Franco who is just trying to help me
get better at selling personal training
so I don't have to have two side jobs
inter vertical today into self
development personal development and
then understanding the value of service
being a servant leader as opposed to and
that's what he was he he had no
obligation to help me like he was paying
me I was training him yet he was
mentoring me in between sets right and
he would hang around if I didn't have a
client afterwards and he talked to me
and he and for the first time I felt
like you know why the here's here's
someone who's well-to-do who's given me
their time like I didn't want to let him
down
and so I would listen to the tape I go
Jim I listened to it and he'd give me
the next one Jim I listened to it give
me the next one and I was brainwashed
into personal development self
development marketing sales persuasion
influence and giving what I find really
interesting is that so many people are
given advice and so few people actually
do something with it what was it about
either the guy that was mentoring you or
you that actually made you go listen to
the tape and put the advice to use two
things one I didn't want to let Jim
Frank go down my mentor and and the
other thing was I was just sick and
tired of being poor and broke minded and
hustling and grinding trying to figure
things out find another loophole in
things and so I figured there's got to
be a better way when the pain is great
enough you start taking action the pain
was great enough like I knew that I
couldn't be a personal trainer in this
big box gym for too long I knew that I
had to do something more and so again
I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer
but I can connect dots and I figured
somehow magically or through some weird
Law of Attraction Jim Franco was put
into my life but I needed that old dude
in my life to set me straight and call
me a kid I needed that tough love
so talk to me it in that it reminds me
of the story that you've told about the
difference between being poor and being
broke define those two because I would
say by your definition you weren't poor
so when we came to America we were poor
and broke the way I look at it because
we would always run out of money before
run out a month we decide you know do we
do without electricity or or gas because
some months we couldn't afford to pay
both and you know being broke is being
without money being poor as being kind
of scarcity minded poor minded and we
just realized that money's for the rich
money's for the the Americans it's for
the people who were born here and went
to college and that's how I grew up and
later Jim Franco taught me that hey you
know what you can't be scarcity minded
you can't you have to live in abundance
you have to understand that people just
want a solution to a problem and they
don't care about the color of your skin
about the level of your education they
want a solution to prompt so he taught
me he had to break all these old
patterns that I had right what were some
of the patterns some of the patterns
were that money's for the white folk and
not for the foreigners you actually
thought yeah hey I really cuz that's
that's how it was because every time we
went and got got more food stamps it was
all foreigners there's no white people
in line at least not not in the parts of
Santa Ana that I was raised and so I
felt that money was for the people who
were telling us to leave this country go
back to your own [__] country and
that also puts a chip on your shoulder
right against them and so I guess I had
some reverse racism towards towards
white America now I realize for no
apparent reason there was a couple of
idiots and every culture I imagine right
but so that was one pattern that I had
another pattern that I had was that
being proud to be blue-collar like my
dad was like and he still says this work
is holy and I believe that work is holy
but the fact that he had so many jobs a
paper route pumping gas worked at a
pizzeria
and so because of that mindset blue
collar blue collar always a blue collar
mentality and I took pride in being blue
collar another pattern Jim Franco had to
have the break was I think dude be white
collar
don't use the shovel sell the shovel I'd
never heard that phrase before I'm the
guy that took pride in I could dig a
deeper hole the deeper trench I could I
could outwork you but that's still
trading time for dollars and so to be
able to break those limiting belief
systems that I had to me was huge
and all of a sudden I realized I'm no
longer poor minded I may end up broke
again
I do really well now but I may make one
or two bad decisions with my money or my
investment to end up being broke again
but I'll never be poor and I know how to
get back from broke because I know how
to add value to society solve problems
and exchange for money but I'll never be
poor again and poor is a state of mind
of feeling out of control
scarcity minded taking pride in being
blue-collar no one should ever take
pride in being blue-collar period period
you've got a brain you've got a solution
to a problem that people want to pay for
put it out there like so many people
probably come up to you and I know they
come up to me and I've got this great
idea and one day I'm gonna do it when is
that day now was that guy got this great
idea and one day I'm gonna do it Jim was
like when is that day kid it's like I'd
always tell him I'm gonna one of the gym
one day when is one day he was have you
ever put a date to it nope
so yeah they break that pattern of being
a procrastinator right so just put a
date to it oh that was scary I go if I
put a date to it what happens if I fail
he goes try not to try not like
immediately I go to failure and it's
nuts to have this like entrepreneurial
mindset being installed in you when all
your coming where you're coming from his
poor minded broke minded and scarcity
minded so when you say scarcity minded
abundant minded what he mean
well the scarcity minded person says oh
someone else opened up a gym you know
across the street from me they're gonna
put me out of business I better charge
less right the abundant minded person
says someone else opened up the gym
across the street from me I better out
service them out work them out social
media them right so the scarcity minded
person is always the sky is falling the
Chicken Little mentality the oh my gosh
if Trump goes into office then we're all
screwed oh my gosh if Hillary goes into
office and we're all screwed I don't
care who's in office anymore
I control my own economy the economy can
crash and go back
and back down again I will find a way as
Tony Robbins says I'm built for winter I
just didn't know it and so more people
need to be abundant minded in that with
the economy crashes I just have to
deliver more value and create this
category of one about myself if
competition shows up I have to out
service them out work them out social
media them versus shrivel up and die so
if you met someone who literally they're
fresh off the boat here from somewhere
communist country don't speak the
language you know what's in store for
them and I give you like an hour with
them what are like some key principles
that you're going to teach them to to
endure ooh great question
thing number one is don't go find where
the group of your people are in other
words if my dad had come to Southern
California and instead of living in
Santa Ana Anaheim Garden Grove that area
we had moved to Glendale where there's a
whole bunch of Armenians we would not
thrive like this we would not thrive
because it blows me away when immigrants
come to this country and then they go to
Little Italy little Armenia little
Little Saigon get the [__] out of Little
Saigon go to little white America learn
to language assimilate understand the
culture like blend into the [__]
fiber of this country because when you
do life becomes increasingly easier it's
when they come and handicap themselves
and they stay in their own culture
during the United States I mean there's
literally a little Armenia and Glendale
don't go there and I and I I might get
hate email forever about that it's I
love the culture I'm just not going to
go grow up there because economy is done
outside of that culture it's done in
this culture and so thing number one is
put yourself in a position where you're
gonna thrive not where it's gonna be
comfortable right number two is most
immigrants will come here and they'll
think blue-collar how am I going to
trade time for dollars and so job number
one job number two job number three get
minimum sleep my argument is how quickly
can you think of a service a product a
business model that you can deploy in
exchange for money right how can you
leverage yourself like I wish I
understood the concept
leveraging and scaling my knowledge I
didn't know that until my late 20s and
early 30s like my kids know that now
once 10 once one's 12 years old like I
didn't understand leverage and scale and
so I teach them leverage and scale that
makes a lot of sense and you talk about
this notion of staying in your zone of
genius whatwhat is that what's the
concept of 5% 95% what what's yeah yeah
yeah so so I believe I'm good at one
thing and I'm good at building fitness
businesses because I'm passion about
fitness I was the fat kid fitness
changed my life and so I want to help
more people in that area of life and so
every time I try and deviate out of my
zone of genius which is Fitness business
or the business of fitness if I tried to
make a funnel run a Facebook ad edit
videos I am operating outside of my zone
of genius and so I learned very quickly
that there's only about 5% of the things
that you do that move the needle we end
up doing a lot of things like most
entrepreneurs end up writing the payroll
checks and doing their own taxes and
setting up their own funnels and ads and
campaigns and why well because it's easy
it's drag-and-drop who cares that's not
your zone of genius you can hire someone
and outsource that but I realized very
quickly that I can outsource 95% of the
things the trivial stuff I can outsource
so that I can focus on the valuable
stuff the 5% which for me is delegate
motivate sell and the more I can
delegate out the more I can motivate my
team and my business partners and my my
clients to buy and use and purchase
again the better I do
so it's delegate motivate sell that's my
5% and most people need to operate
within their zone of genius and just
outsource everything else and when you
do life becomes a lot easier makes a lot
of sense you've got GSD what does GSD
stand for get [__] done yeah like that
yeah you know nothing happens until you
get [__] done everyone's got a great
idea it'll make me this many millions
and it'll help this many people nothing
happens so you get that [__] done so how
do you teach people to do that your
masterminds seem pretty impressive super
intense which
is a word that I would definitely
slather all over you how do you train
them to do that
I love the mastermind environment I love
the coaching environment because through
a course I can't transfer this feeling
of intensity of obligation and duty I
really feel like I've got this
obligation and duty to reach my fullest
potential for two reasons one I feel of
God or whoever the superpower is put
some gift in all of us we're doing that
superpower a disservice if when we die
we haven't reached that full potential
number two what kind of [__] example
am i leaving for my kids right dad chose
to take the easy path every time instead
of the hard path that's what I did when
I was younger and I was involved in
helicopter chases with the cops no
longer will do I want to take the easy
path I'll always take the hardest path
and it becomes the best path and so the
big thing here when I'm coaching my
clients is if I have 12 months with them
and I get to meet them three times a
year in person for two days at a time
I'm able to transfer that intensity I'm
able to get them to stop thinking in the
weeds and start thinking in the clouds
like be thinking about 5% instead of the
ninety five percent as we talked about
earlier I get them to understand their
duty and obligation of whatever their
gift or purpose is on this planet I
can't do that through my courses I've
got a lot of courses that I created
thinking that it would help people I
realized the courses don't transfer the
intensity passion purpose duty
obligation but I can get in someone's
face and with love transfer that feeling
and I believe that might be another gift
which still is training it's coaching
it's just instead of fitness I'm
coaching you on your outcome in life
right but but man I love the coaching
aspect for that reason because I can
truly follow up with you and go hey
you've made a commitment at this
mastermind and in 90 days we're gonna
see each other like I don't want you to
be the one client who came and said I
didn't do it right and so when I put
that kind of pressure on now many of my
clients do quit and leave that you
couldn't leave because of the pressure
yes yes and that's okay they still want
to stay crop dusters and that's okay but
I see fighter jet potential I'd say now
you have to define that okay so fighter
jets versus crop dusters fighter jet
versus crop dusters is that I believe we
all are raised as fighter jets just we
get neutered by parents by
and parents because of the [__]
filters they had and viewed life through
the experiences they had teachers who go
you don't want to disappoint yourself
just go to college go get a good job go
to college don't go to college today
don't go to college it's the worst thing
you can do and that's gonna be a doctor
or an attorney and/or accountant or you
know some kind of an architect don't go
to college you can do a lot more in life
with that going to college and so again
teachers professors will end up
neutering us and when they take they
take that fighter jet that hunger the
claws and fangs they [__] defang us
alright so now we're crop dusters I
don't want to take too many risks I just
want to live a good life and they want
to be average and mediocre that's the
crop duster yet everyone inside has this
hunger see the fighter jet didn't go
away it's just been suppressed
you've been neutered and that was me
like hey don't take big gray just go get
a good job go be a smart technician like
that was the advice I was given go be a
smog technician right so I'd be the guy
putting the [__] probe in the
tailpipe of your car and then saying you
can go get your car registered Tom that
was it that was it and so I realized
very quickly that I've got this hunger
inside me as I talked to others they got
this hunger inside them ha that's the
fighter jet trying to get out that's the
cause and things trying to grow but the
Society parents whoever have set the
standard for you to not play it safe
take risks what if you lose what have
you lose who care as long as you don't
die you can come right back
and so the fighter jet mentality is that
someone who is just determined
relentlessly obsessed in achieving an
outcome in the face of all adversity the
crop duster if someone who's always
looking for the easiest path the
loophole which what I used to be a
severe crop duster the crop duster hits
the snooze button every day because
they'd rather take ten more minutes of
mediocre sleep then getting up and
dominating their path every morning on
my nightstand there's two stacks of
[__] dominoes lined up and at the top
of this stack says you're a loser the
top of this one says you're a winner if
I hit the snooze button I've hit that
first domino in the loser stack the rest
of my day is gonna suck now with that
mentality am I gonna ever hit snooze
again absolutely not because I've sold
myself on the idea that when I hit the
snooze button I'm an absolute loser I'm
scum of the earth I am my day is
destined to be shitty now some people go
you're being awfully hard on yourself
more people should be hard on themselves
we go around bubble wrapping ourselves
right we leave the training bills on for
too long like be hard on yourself
take the [__] bubble wrap off take
the take the training wheels off no one
did that for me man we came to this
country and it was just like hey go
figure it out but it was don't take
risks to go get a good job
[__] that be a fighter jet be a fighter
jet go to battle every day take risks
that's what a fighter jet does a crop
duster has a routine life and it's
[__] boring dude that the example
that you gave of the alarm clock snooze
button is brilliant if I come to you and
I'm crop duster but I am really serious
that I want to become a fighter jet but
I don't know what to do
are there other mechanical things like
that that I can do that will empower me
like how do I cross that chasm yes the
way you cross the chasm is by building a
morning ritual like I had no morning
ritual so I would wake up hit the snooze
button it would go off again I'd hit it
one more time and then I'd get up what
do I do
right today you can set your clock to me
like you know by by exactly about six oh
five six oh six I'm sitting on my couch
on the right hand side of my living room
and a sniper could actually shoot me
every day at that at that time right not
a minute later or sooner and and the
reason is because I wake up at 5 o'clock
never hit the snooze button have my
morning ritual of taking a shower
water coffee protein shake
playing with cookie my dog and then
getting on my couch and then literally
looking at my iPhone what are the three
things I'm gonna do this morning that's
in my 5% it's gonna move the needle
there's only I can do that I'm capable
of doing then I put my iPhone upside
down on silent and I push it away from
me like all of that to me is a ritual
it's no different going back to a
fighter jet the dude the if I guess the
fighter jet pilot doesn't just jump in
and go all right let's start dropping
bombs he has to go through a checklist
right of dropping the canopy turning
this on checking that making sure the
GPS works guidance system okay great
fantastic now he takes off so you've got
to build mechanically where mechanically
is concerned yeah don't hit the snooze
button but making lists the night before
do a brain dump what are the three to
five things that you need to do that's
gonna really move the needle in your
business or in your life right and then
go and do that and so for me I make the
list the night before
dominated the morning of by 9 a.m. I'm
off to the gym and you know I am because
you can look at my stories and it's like
hey it's 9 o'clock and I'm off to the
gym to go crush another workout then I
go to the HQ it's the same [__]
routine but it's such a great routine
because it's every day's a challenge the
weight room is a challenge my work is a
challenge I get to the headquarters and
we've got a new challenge because the
Federal Trade Commission wants to know
how we're selling so many franchises
that's a good problem to have like in
life we're gonna have good problems it's
just is there are your problems first
world problems or third world props I
just have third world problems no money
no opportunity no hope first world
problems are the Federal Trade
Commission is auditing you because your
franchise is growing so quickly I'll
take that right that's what we want I
love that and when I think about what it
is that allowed me to be successful it
was the ability to generate that energy
from nothing to not have any particular
hunger or anything in me but to leverage
the pain to leverage the darkness to
knowingly turn inward and say I'm gonna
turn this into something how do you
teach people to do that well it's not
easy and I think the best teacher is
environmental exposure and again this is
why I love high-level coaching like if
someone wants to create a brand like you
have with quest their fastest route is
to be within you and your partner's
circles its environment exposure what
does Tom do every morning how does he
think was the first thing he say to his
wife what is the first call he make what
what is it what does he look up like I'm
curious what do you look up on your
phone the first thing in the morning are
you responding to text messages emails I
want to know because I want to get to
where you are environmental exposures so
if I had it my way I would be attached
to your hip if I wanted to be the next
Tom so environmental exposure is the
number one teacher to turning people
into fighter jets it's not a light
switch
it's a dimmer switch that goes up over a
year I want to talk about that
transition in your life from not being a
good leader
recognizing that which is already pretty
extraordinary and then becoming a good
leader what what was that transition
like and why is the punchline man up hmm
well the transition was really painful
see I thought I was an entrepreneur I
wasn't I was a business owner and as a
business owner you know I owned five
personal training gyms and when you're
in the right parts of San Diego and the
economy's thriving do you get clients
it's easy enough and it wasn't until
I started coaching and consulting
personal trainers after selling my gems
the economy crashes and that's when I
just said I'm going to start this
franchise you know because one on one
personal training is no longer feasible
for most people so hey this is the time
to create this franchise well I had to
hire more team members more employees
and I realized in that moment in fact I
haven't took on a business partner and I
realized in that moment as I was going
through this day you know my employees
were showing up a little late they're
leaving a little early they're kind of
doing the bare minimum and I want to
give them a feedback Tom but I didn't
know how I didn't know how to give him
feedback and I looking back it was
because I didn't want hurt their
feelings
I cared about their approval how they
felt about me and because of that I
won't give a feedback but something
would happen I would start feeling
animosity towards him right like I don't
want them here I don't want them to be
around me before you know it that kind
of turns into this adversarial tension
that was between me and some my
employees and me and my business partner
who I felt he should be doing this but
instead he was doing X but I never gave
him feedback yet I was
passive-aggressive right and so when
you're passive-aggressive towards people
you're afraid to give feedback you don't
know how to communicate to a team and
you don't have clarity of vision you
know hey we're growing this Fit Body
Boot Camp franchise great are we gonna
be international or just the United
States I don't know how many locations
we want I don't know
and it never took time to have clarity
of vision what do I want when do I want
it by how am I gonna get there and so we
were launching starting Fit Body Boot
Camp in 2010 by 2012 we were an official
franchise by 20 early 2013 I was having
anxiety attacks so bad the first one I
had I thought it was a heart attack my
throat was closing up I was tunnel
vision my hands were sweaty arms
tingling couldn't breathe my heart's
racing I could hear the thug lug in my
in my ears with my blood pressure just
pumping and I thought this is how I die
and thank God I stumbled outside and
fresh air just kind of set me straight
and I was sweaty and fine but I was like
right I can go dominate my day again and
that night I tell my wife like hey I
think I cheated death I think I think I
cheated
heart attack shows you're an idiot how
do you cheat a heart attack like we're
gonna take you to the doctor dummy and
so we go and the doctors like hey man it
wasn't a heart attack they put me
through the EKG test but what you did
have is a anxiety attack you know you
have a lot of stress in your life and of
course my wife rolls her eyes and
thinking well yeah I don't know if I
have stress in my life but I take nyquil
and vicodin to go to sleep and then I
take adderall and pre-workout in the
mornings to beat the foggy headedness
yeah I guess I do have anxiety in my
life he goes we got to stop I was like
oh I don't know how to stop just
prescribe me xanax give me more meds
getting more drugs and he didn't think
Amy's antics and I took that for about
four days and time I was like drooling
out of the side of my mouth so what's
the point of taking adderall and then
xanax their counter counteracting and I
realized I don't have any clarity here
like mental focus I got it I got to
figure this out without the drugs so I
tried to will away the anxiety attacks
still trying to grow our Fit Body Boot
Camp franchise still no clarity no
ability to communicate no no vision no I
was a poor leader I got to the point in
fact where I was avoiding coming to my
office because I didn't want to see my
business partner and my employees
because I felt it was them against me
right and by this point even though we
had franchise a year earlier we were
losing more franchise locations now that
we were gaining see people just see the
success of Fit Body Boot Camp now they
don't realize that I was six hundred
forty thousand dollars in debt in 2013
now I was an entrepreneur I was no
longer a business owner I was an
entrepreneur like holy [__] I'm trying
to build an empire and it's imploding on
me and one day my wife and I earn and
our kids are on a small little vacation
because that's all we could afford the
Palm Springs we went for three days on
day two I got a text message that
basically was some bad news about my
partner doing something really stupid
and I texted him I said hey is this true
they did this stupid thing he says yeah
bro , I [__] up and he sent it to me
told my wife pack up the [__] we're
driving back to Chino Hills and then
entire Drive from Palm Springs to Chino
Hills which is about an hour and a half
the whole time I'm just it's time to man
up it's time to man up it's time to I'm
literally saying those five words to
myself in my head though wife's quiet
kids are quiet in the back it's time to
man up it's time to man up because of
time to man up and have that painful
conversation with my business partner
and say either you go or I go but we
can't both run this thing and I was
ready to let go Fit Body Boot Camp and
so I said hey meet me at the at the
office I'll see you there
and so one it's time to man up at a time
I started having the conversations with
my employees I need you to be here on
time I need you to meet my expectations
I need to then I realized wait a minute
I'm being a [__] hypocrite I'm
hitting the snooze button I'm not
showing up on time because I don't want
to be around them I got to suck it up
and I got to be there I got to be there
so there's learning process of being a
fighter jet continues like there's
different levels of fighter jets right
and so very quickly I realized that when
you say it's time to man up it really is
stop making excuses take control of your
situation and rise to your potential and
I knew I had this potential to build a
big brand a franchise where I can help
millions of people every morning
worldwide and it feels so good to wake
up and do that today
but for this to happen I had to become
an effective leader I had to get self
disciplined first stop being a hypocrite
I had to learn to communicate and give
feedback and not feel like I need their
approval or they're gonna accept it as
criticism I had to have clarity of
vision where is my business going how
many locations do I want and by when and
how are we gonna get there I didn't have
that today we're super clear on that we
know exactly how many locations we need
to gain every day to hit our goal of
2500 locations by the year 2023 I never
had that and and and so then of course I
was so emotionally reactive something
would happen and I would just
emotionally react today I just think
think process and respond what do you
think is the reason that any of us are
here man I don't think that we would be
here if we didn't have a purpose I can
tell you that I truly a purpose that's
given to us or it's our job to develop
that purpose it's our job to find and
hone in and craft that purpose and the
purpose is usually crafted through some
level of suffering it's the hero's
journey right like in film you know the
hero he's down and out and he loses the
girl in the in the house and he goes on
this journey and he finds strength and
wisdom and knowledge and comes back and
is now the hero we have to go through
that level of suffering like for me ever
thing that happened from being molested
to literally one day eating caviar for
breakfast because my dad was a member of
the Communist Party
the next day starving in Italy and
wondering why are we sharing one [__]
banana for a family of five what the
[__] is going on and and so there's this
hunger that everyone has and it's always
neutered my family my teachers my
culture and I believe you wouldn't be
put on this planet if you didn't have
this hunger and if you explore this
hunger and for me it was then being the
fat kid then being a being a foreigner
and then a fat kid and then fixing my
problems and then realizing I have the
solution to other peoples weight-loss
problems for someone else it might be a
financial thing you know they fix their
financial problems and they realize they
can help everyone else's financial
problems but you have to go through the
suffering you have to be hungry enough
to deal with the pain and come out the
other side with some scars because scar
tissue is infinitely more resilient than
regular tissue but again goes back to
most people feel like yeah I think
there's something great in me but I
don't want to explore it I want to play
it safe I'm gonna stay bubble-wrapped I
don't want to risk it but we wouldn't be
put on this planet if we didn't have
this greater thing to accomplish now
some of us are going to be Elon Musk and
we're gonna shoot a [__] Tesla to the
Mars right and and that's okay and
others are gonna create a fitness
franchise or a or a supplement company
that actually delivers you know great
nutrients that help people in eyes their
performance some other people are just
gonna be really great therapist they're
gonna keep throughout their life maybe
you save 10 12 15 people from killing
themselves whatever your purpose is
you've got to develop it you got to
develop it but you wouldn't be put on
this planet if you didn't have it I'm
convinced of that right before I asked
my last question tell these guys where
they can find you online best place to
find me is bedros cool Ian calm or on my
social media platforms Instagram
Facebook Twitter YouTube at Pedro's
Kulina
alright my last question what's the
impact that you want to have in the
world
that's exactly at the impact I want to
have on the world is that we're all here
with so much potential yet we most of us
it's unfortunate but most of us leave
with majority of that potential untapped
and if I could just by the time I die if
I can get a loud enough voice to share
with people that mom and dad don't write
your book schoolteachers don't write
your book those two [__] dudes who
molested me didn't write my book I'm the
author of my own book you're the author
of your own book so many people give the
pen to someone else and if I could just
help enough people realize that they
hold the pen there's way more pages to
be written and they could write it then
I've actually served my impact I believe
that's the thing that I want to leave
that's an amazing answer man all right
guys I am beyond in awe of what he's
done his story is is astonishing on a
level that I almost don't know how to
convey to come to this country with no
money to literally be diving in
dumpsters to try to eat to have to fight
that hard against a system and people
that don't want you here that are
heckling you and in all of that to
somehow still find this way to creating
something beautiful and that's what I
want you to understand to be a fighter
jet to be intense to wade into the
darkness to bring out your full
potential all in service of something
beautiful trying to build something that
is helping other people this is somebody
that looked at his life and said being a
jerk getting in fights doing all of the
bad [__] that I'm doing it isn't leading
me anywhere that I want to go and so he
flips it and builds something out of
that build something out of wanting to
connect with people build something out
of wanting to do amazing things for
other people and relentlessly goes after
that skillset but the thing that I hope
nobody misses in his story is that it's
the suffering that leads to that and I
think that a lot of people get lost in
that and that is my big fear and that is
the thing that I always I don't know how
to deal with that I don't know how to
put people through that kind of pain to
see them become something but when I see
a story like this and I understand
somebody that wasn't broken by it but
they were able to grow stronger and Bill
themselves out of it that to me is
incredibly inspiring so whatever you're
going through I hope that you will lean
on a historian what he was able to
accomplish the future of what you're
able to accomplish because it is truly
limitless all right if you guys haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care hey everybody thank you so much for
watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're gonna get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential